CSC 218, Section 01, 02
Homework,  Asst. #12

Purpose:   Become familiar with the MS-DOS system services.
Due:       Wednesday   (11/02)
Points:    155   (125 - program and 30 - documentation / coding style)


Assignment:
Write a program that will read one file, add lines numbers and write
the information to another file.  The program should read both file
names from the command line.  An example command line is: 

     c:\temp> ln_nums  file.txt  nfile.txt

The program must handle one or more spaces between the command line
arguments.  The file names need only accommodate MS DOS file names
(maximum 8 characters file name with 3 character extensions).

The line numbers must be 6 characters (with leading 0's), terminated
in a ":" and include 1 space.  For example, if the original file line
was "Hello World", the new line to be written into the new file would
be "000001: Hello World".  The maximum line number the program must
handle is 655000 (which implies the line number must be a double-word).

The program must perform error checking.  If no command line input was
entered, invalid/incorrect file names were entered, or no files matching
the specification was entered an appropriate error message should be
generated.  After an error message is printed, the program can be
terminated.

For simplicity, you may assume that the text input files have no more
than 255 characters per line.   A series of test files will be provided.
You do not have to handle files that do not conform.  You will be
provided a series of example files for testing  To ensure overall
efficiency, the program must perform buffered I/O with a buffer
size of 8192.

You must use the provided main routine.  The main program must not be
changed in any way.  All your procedures must be in a separate,
independently assembled source file.

Refer to Chapter 13 of the on-line text for additional information of
the various system services required to find files in the directory and
obtain file information (13.3.8.8 and 12.3.8.9).  Refer to Chapter
13 (13.3.11) and the class web page for information regarding the
command line processing. 



Submission:
When complete, submit a copy of the source file(s) via the class web
page (assignment submission link) before Wednesday 4:00pm on
November 2, 2005.   Assignments received after 4:00pm will not  be
accepted!  Do not submit a hard-copy.  Do not submit the provided main.



